git is so popular because using copy paste will consume a lot of data in your harddisk

git is a version control system
a version control system is a system which helps us to track our files
 - easily recover files
 - who introduced an issue and when
 - roll back to previous working stage
 
History of version control system:
local vcs - DB to keep track of files
		pros - can track files and roll back
		cons - if you lose your harddisk , everything will be lost

Centralized VCS - centralized server to keep track of all the files
		pros - can track files and roll back
		cons - if server is lost older versions might be lost

Distributed VCS - everybody has all the history or backup 
		pros - 
git is a distributed VCS

How was git created?
ans: Linux kernel
1991 - 2002 : 
2002 : Bitkeeper           --> 2005   freee of charge status lost
GIT : Linux kernel
GITHUB: website to host git repositories
GITLab: websites to host git repositories

git captures snapshots
git is very fast
.git folder keeps track of all the files
Almost every operation is local

local - operations on your own computer
remove - operations on internet

git has integrity
git uses checksum - to verify if the file you downloaded is original or not
git generally only adds data



Q. What is git bash?
ans. git bash is a terminal like cmd powershell etc.
we can also fire git from powershell. just type in git.

Git installation - Git command line tool
		   Git bash(terminal program)

terminal always work under a directory 
to change the directory you can use the change directory  == cd command
e.g. cd /c
	cd /d
	cd c:
	cd d:
we can't change the directory to the current directory
 if you are in a directory . Then all the directories inside that directory can be directly accessed using their name . but if you want to go back . Then you have to give the complete path from /c or /d to that specific directory. 
the path can be of the form /c/x/git
/d/x/git
"/c/x/git"
"/d/x/git"

cd hello/

we can use terminals to work with git repositories and we can also use some gui to do the same work 
gui helps to do the same work in an easy manner

while working on powershell 
the above statements can be written as : 
cd "c:"
cd "d:"
cd "c:x/git"
cd "d:x/git"
cd d:
cd c:

git config --global user.name "vishal"
git confit --global user.email "vishalsharma....E@gmail.com"

git uses linux commands / paths

git config --list

git config user.name
git config user.email


lecture 3:

Git : three stage architecture
                   Local operations
working directory        staging area      git directory(repository)




index.html    stage       commit
engine.js
index.css     stage       commit

working directory: the way you see the files in your file explorer is the working directory
staging area : it is those set of files which we want to go to the next snapshot
git directory: it is a .git named hidden file which contains all the files in compressed form
and it also contains older versions .



lecture 4: 

git status : gives initial status of the git repository

git init : initializes a new git repository
a new .git folder is also created which is hidden

on branch master : branch  by default is master

git add --a  : add all the files to the staging area

git commit -m "Initial commit"      : to commit all the files in the staging area to the git repository

git log  : gives a track or data of all the commits

git add first.txt : to add only a specific file to the staging area
here first.txt is the name of our file


if you do 
git init  again then it will reinitialize your directory

Q. what does reinitializing your git repository mean ? Search it on google?



lecture 5:
cloning a git repository from GitHub


to stop tracking a folder or directory and you want to delete all the git repository then the command is:
rm -rf .git
it is a command in linux which deletes all the contents of a folder and here .git is our folder where all
the git repository content is stored


git clone url
git clone url userDefinedNameForTheDirectory

this will create a new folder or new directory inside your git repository folder 

pwd : gives the present working directory
ls : list the contents of the folder in which you are currently on



lecture 6:

File Status Lifecycle

untracked         unmodified      modified         staged


after init or change in a file  ->>untracked
git add --a 
as we have staged them for the first time then instead of saying that staged let us say that we have unmodified the files
after changing files again 
the git status will show the file in staging area and untracked area both


